Preface to the Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica

Sir Isaac Newton (1686)

Since the ancients (as we are told by Pappus) made great account of the science
of mechanics in the investigation of natural things; and the moderns, laying
aside substantial forms and occult qualities, have endeavored to subject the
phenomena of nature to the laws of mathematics, I have in this treatise
cultivated mathematics so far as it regards philosophy. The ancients considered
mechanics in a twofold respect; as rational, which proceeds accurately by
demonstration, and practical. to practical mechanics all the manual arts
belong, from which mechanics took its name. But as artificers do not work with
perfect accuracy, it comes to pass that mechanics is so distinguished from
geometry, that what is perfectly accurate is called geometrical; what is less
so is called mechanical. But the errors are not in the art, but in the
artificers. He that works with less accuracy is an imperfect mechanic: and if
any could work with perfect accuracy, he would be the most perfect mechanic of
all; for the description of right lines and circles, upon which geometry is
founded, belongs to mechanics. Geometry does not teach us to draw these lines,
but requires them to be drawn; for it requires that the learner should first be
taught to describe these accurately, before he enters upon geometry; then it
shows how by these operations problems may be solved. to describe right lines
and circles are problems, but not geometrical problems. The solution of these
problems is required from mechanics; and by geometry the use of them, when so
solved, is shown; and it is the glory of geometry that from those few
principles, fetched from without, it is able to produce so many things.
Therefore geometry is founded in mechanical practice, and is nothing but that
part of universal mechanics which accurately proposes and demonstrates the art
of measuring. But since the manual arts are chiefly conversant in the moving of
bodies, it comes to pass that geometry is commonly referred to their
magnitudes, and mechanics to their motion. In this sense rational mechanics
will be the science of motions resulting from any forces whatsoever, and of the
forces required to produce any motions, accurately proposed and demonstrated.
This part of mechanics was cultivated by the ancients in the five powers which
relate to manual arts, who considered gravity (it not being a manual power) no
otherwise than as it moved weights by those powers. Our design, not respecting
arts, but philosophy, and our subject, not manual, but natural powers, we
consider chiefly those things which relate to gravity, levity, elastic force,
the resistance of fluids, and the like forces, whether attractive or impulsive;
and therefore we offer this work as mathematical principles of philosophy; for
all the difficulty of philosophy seems to consist in this—from the phenomena of
motions to investigate the forces of nature, and then from these forces to
demonstrate the other phenomena; and to this end the general propositions in
the first and second book are directed. In the third book we give an example of
this in the explication of the system of the World; for by the propositions
mathematically demonstrated in the first book, we there derive from the
celestial phenomena the forces of gravity with which bodies tend to the sun and
the several planets. Then, from these forces, by other propositions which are
also mathematical, we deduce the motions of the planets, the comets, the moon,
and the sea. I wish we could derive the rest of the phenomena of nature by the
same kind of reasoning from mechanical principles; for I am induced by many
reasons to suspect that they may all depend upon certain forces by which the
particles of bodies, by some causes hitherto unknown, are either mutually
impelled towards each other, and cohere in regular figures, or are repelled and
recede from each other; which forces being unknown, philosophers have hitherto
attempted the search of nature in vain; but I hope the principles here laid
down will afford some light either to that or some truer method of philosophy.
In the publication of this work, the most acute and universally learned Mr.
Edmund Halley not only assisted me with his pains in correcting the press and
taking care of the schemes, but it was to his solicitations that its becoming
public is owing; for when he had obtained of me my demonstrations of the figure
of the celestial orbits, he continually pressed me to communicate the same to
the Royal Society, who afterwards, by their kind encouragement and entreaties,
engaged me to think of publishing them. But after I had begun to consider the
inequalities of the lunar motions, and had entered upon some other things
relating to the laws and measures of gravity, and other forces; and the figures
that would be described by bodies attracted according to given laws; and the
motion of several bodies moving among themselves; the motion of bodies in
resisting mediums; the forces, densities, and motions of mediums; the orbits of
the comets, and such like; I put off that publication till I had made a search
into those matters, and could put out the whole together. What relates to the
lunar motions (being imperfect) I have put all together in the corollaries of
proposition 66, to avoid being obliged to propose and distinctly demonstrate
the several things there contained in a method more prolix than the subject
deserved, and interrupt the series of the several propositions. Some things,
found out after the rest, I chose to insert in places less suitable, rather
than change the number of the propositions and the citations. I heartily beg
that what I have here done may be read with candor; and that the defects I have
been guilty of upon this difficult subject may be not so much reprehended as
kindly supplied, and investigated by new endeavors of my readers.

Cambridge, Trinity College,
May 8, 1686.
ISAAC NEWTON.
